Fixed #37165 -- Updated Async Support topic doc. (#21465)
django/django: docs/topics/async.txt

.. currentmodule:: asgiref.sync

> Django has support for writing asynchronous ("async") views, along with an

Reviewer: It'd be better to rewrite this and shift the focus from views to Django in general (middleware, signal handlers, views, etc.), since there's already a dedicated section about views. 

---

> Django has support for writing asynchronous ("async") code throughout the request stack, including middleware, signal handlers, and views, along with an entirely async-enabled request stack if you are running under :doc:ASGI </howto/deployment/asgi/index>. Async code will still work under WSGI, but with a small per-request adaptation cost (see :ref:async_performance), and without efficient long-running requests, loop-bound async clients etc.

Author: As an intro I think views are the important thing to focus on, that's what users touch most. It's the core of a web framework, turning requests into responses.

entirely async-enabled request stack if you are running under :doc:`ASGI
</howto/deployment/asgi/index>`. Async views will still work under WSGI, but
with a small per-request adaptation cost (see :ref:`async_performance`), and
without the ability to have efficient long-running requests.

> Many parts of Django provide asynchronous APIs, including :ref:`the ORM

Reviewer: This makes it sound like the cache framework, authentication, sessions, mail, etc., are purely async

> Many parts of Django provide asynchronous APIs, including :ref:the ORM <async-queries>, the cache framework, authentication, sessions, mail, and signals. Many of these still rely on the :func:sync_to_async adapter internally rather than being natively async (see :ref:async_performance). Where true async is needed, these can often be replaced with async-native third-party packages.

Author: The internals are an implementation detail. It's the user facing API that's important, and that is async in all these areas.

Reviewer 2: I land with Carlton on this one. The concern would be valid if the text claimed these APIs were "_natively async_", that would imply something untrue about the internals. But as written it is simply accurate: the ORM, cache, auth, sessions, mail, and signals all expose `await`-able interfaces, and that's a fact a reader can rely on.

Whether a given API is async-native or bridged with `sync_to_async` underneath is an implementation detail that belongs in the performance/how-it-works discussion, not the intro, so I'd keep the sentence as is.

Author: Indeed, the vast majority of users have no interest at all in the implementation details. Not doing so is the selling point, one might think 😅

Reviewer: kk

> <async-queries>`, the cache framework, authentication, sessions, mail, and

Reviewer 2: I'll be dropping `mail` in this list since I can't find any `await`-able definitions in `django.core.mail`.

Author: We said no to asend_mail then. Good 🥳

Thanks!

If you want to use these, you will need to deploy Django using
:doc:`ASGI </howto/deployment/asgi/index>` instead.

> .. note::

Reviewer: I'd keep this as a warning rather than a note, because this is where the async performance penalty for built-in middleware actually comes from. 

The handler has an optimization that groups consecutive sync middleware so they're adapted once, not per middleware. But the built-in middleware declare `sync_capable = True` and `async_capable = True` via `MiddlewareMixin`, so the handler skips adapting them, the grouping optimization doesn't apply, and they look free. Under the hood, `MiddlewareMixin.__acall__` wraps both `process_request` and `process_response` in `sync_to_async(thread_sensitive=True)`, so the user still pays the adapter cost twice per middleware.

related discussion - https://github.com/django/django/pull/20949/changes#r2967589696
related issue - https://github.com/django/new-features/issues/102

Author: I reduced it because I think it's overplayed. 

With a bigger restructure I'd move this down to the related content below. It doesn't feel correctly placed really, and is in part a repeat of what follows. (But that would be a follow up)

Reviewer: <img width="1980" height="587" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7fd36ae3-30aa-4cff-8265-dd4ed48fb399" />

It's definitely not overplayed. Look at the middle of the graph, that drop is just from rewriting the 6 default Django middlewares to pure async 😌

Agreed, moving it to the performance section makes sense.

Reviewer 2: Resolving since this is now tracked in https://code.djangoproject.com/ticket/37177

    A fully asynchronous request stack requires async middleware end-to-end.
    Where a piece of synchronous middleware sits between an ASGI server and
    an async view, Django adapts it by running it in its own thread; see
    :ref:`async_performance` for the cost trade-off.

>     Django's bundled middleware is :ref:`dual-capable <async-middleware>`.

Author: @jacobtylerwalls just to note, this sentence will need changing if ticket-37177 is resolved.

When running in a mode that does not match the view (e.g. an async view under
WSGI, or a traditional sync view under ASGI), Django must emulate the other

> call style to allow your code to run. The per-call cost of this adaptation

Reviewer: I think the new framing is too optimistic, and "this is rarely visible per request" risks misleading people.

The `async_to_sync` microbenchmark runs with zero contention shows tens of microseconds. A real request doesn't look like that. The cost worth warning about isn't the raw context switch. it's GIL contention, where sync work is funneled through a shared thread and effectively serialized (a convoy effect).

Consider a non-trivial request: a GraphQL view with the ~10 default Django middlewares plus 5-10 ORM queries, each crossing the sync/async boundary, on a workload that mixes I/O with CPU (JSON serialization, DSL parsing). Once a CPU-bound thread holds the GIL, a thread waiting to run sync work can stall up to one switch interval (sys.getswitchinterval(), 5ms by default) before it's rescheduled. With dozens of crossings per request ((10 × 2 middlewares + 10 queries) × 2 ≈ 60 GIL handoffs), those waits compound. potentially to tens of milliseconds, not microseconds.

The loop advice is good and worth keeping. But I'd soften "rarely visible per request." under realistic mixed load with the default thread-sensitive mode, it can be very visible.

is small: tens of microseconds in the in-request ASGI path, where the running
event loop is reused, and a few hundred microseconds in the cold-start path
used by management commands, background tasks, and scripts. Against typical

> request times measured in milliseconds, this is rarely visible per request.

Author: I could accept something like this:

```suggestion
request times measured in milliseconds, this is rarely visible in itself, but can become so under GIL contention as the number of active threads grow. 
```

(Basically one needs to look at your active usage patterns to determine whether the optimistic or pessimistic phrasing applies, but I think an awful lot of our users are not seeing problems here.)

🤷

Reviewer 2: I think this is a good compromise. It's a fair statement stating the trade-off honestly, in the section where it belongs. I also think this covers the concern that the limitation was dropped, so I don't think we need a separate warning on top of it.

One tweak: I think the verb should be "grows" since what grows is the number.

Author: @nessita is the noun the "number" or the "number of active threads"? 🧵

Reviewer 2: In my reading, the noun is "the number of foo" where it does not matter what foo is, the number is always singular. The Django docs shows this pattern as well, a few examples:
```
topics/cache.txt:259:is called and the number of entries exceeds ``MAX_ENTRIES``.
topics/forms/formsets.txt:133:If the number of items [...] exceeds ``max_num``, 
releases/1.10.txt:763:[...] the number of GET/POST parameters is limited
ref/validators.txt:328:    - ``'max_digits'`` if the number of digits is larger than ``max_digits``.
```
